DBMS: It is a set of interrelated data and set of program to access those data.The primary goal of DBMS is to provide a way to store and retrive those
      data which is both convenient and efficient.
Database: It is collection of data relevant to an enterprise.
Data: It is collection of raw facts and figures.There is is no role of information here.
Information: It is the result of data processing which can help people for decision making. Data is the most important element here.
Knowledge: It is collection of useful and interesting information. Information is the main element here.
Data Redundancy: Redundancy of data means having same set of data many times at different locations.
                Disadvantages: Storage space is wasted.
                               Duplication of efforts as same data has to be manipulated at all the locations.
                               Leads to inconsistency.
Data Inconsitency: It is the condition in which two records reveals different information about the same entity and we are not able to judge which is 
                   correct.
Data Dictionary: It is the integral part of the database. It stores information about the database and the data it stores called metadata.It holds the 
                 information about each data element in the database. Such as names, types, range of values, access authorization, indicate which
                 application program uses the data.
Two-Tier Architecture: A two tier architecture in dbms is a datbase architecture in which the presentation layer is present on the client side and data is
                       stored on the server called the second tier. In this there is added security as data is not exposed to end user directly.
Three-Tier Architecture: A three Tier Architecture in DBMS is the most popular client server architecture in DBMS.
                         Three Tier architecture contains a presentation layer, an application layer, and a database server.
Component Module of DBMS: A database system is partitioned into modules that deal with all the responsibilities of the overall system.
                          The functional component of database can be divided into storage manager and query processor.
                          Query Processor:
                                          1.DDL (Data Definition Language) interpreter: Executes low level statements and record them in set of tables.
                                          2.DML (Data Manipulation Language) compiler: Converts DML statements in source form of query language into
                                                                                       neccessary object (low level instructon) that query evaluation 
                                                                                       engine understands.
                                          3.DML precompiler: Convert DML statements embedded in application program to normal procedure calls in host 
                                                             Language.
                                          4.Query Evaluation engine: Execute low level instruction generated by DML compiler.
                          Storage manager:
                                          1.Authorization and integrity manager: Checks the authority of users to access data.
                                          2.Transaction Manager: Ensures data consistency despite system failure.
                                          3.Buffer Manager: Responsible for fetching data from disk to main memory.
                                          4.File manager: Manages allocation of space on disk storage.
                                          
File System: A file System is a software that manages and organizes the files in a storage medium. Storing and retrieving of data can't be done 
            efficiently in a file system. It doesn't offer data recovery process. It doesn't have crash recovery mechanism.Protecting a file system is 
            difficult.Redundancy of data is more. Data inconsistency is higher.No support for complicated transactions. Concurrency (multiple transaction
            at once) control is not provided. Cost of software is cheaper.
            
DBMS System: A DBMS system is software to access, create and manage databases. vice-versa.
Data models: A data models define the logical structure of database.It introduce abstraction to DBMS.It also defines how data is connected to each other
             processed and stored inside the system.
Types Of Data Models:
                     1. Hierarchical model: It is one of the oldest data model developed in 1950s by IBM.In this model Data is organized in a tree like 
                        structure.This model has one parent and many children i.e. one to many relationship.
                     2. Network model: It is generalization of Hierarchical data model as it provides many to many relationship therefore in this the
                        data can have more than one parent.It can be represented as graph in which object type are nodes and relationship are edges.
                     3. Entity relationship model: It is high level data model.It describes the structure of database in pictorial form known as ER 
                        diagram.It represent the logical structure of the database eaisly.
                     4. Relational model: It is the most widely used data model.In this the data is represented as a collection of rows and colums of
                        a two dimensional table. rows are knows as tuples while the colums are represent an attributes.
                     5. Object oriented model: It is the combination of object oriented programming and relational model.In this model the data and 
                        their relationship is reprsented in single structure known as object.Since data is stored as object we can easily store image,
                        videos,audios in database.
Schemas:Schemas are the logical description of the entire database.That is, the design of the database is datbase schema and it change rarely.
        They are different schemas partitioned according to the level of abstraction.The lower level called the internal schema, at the intermediate level
        the conceptual or logical schema and at the highest level is the external schema or subschema.
        Internal schema describe how the data is stored on the disk.
        Conceptual schema describe the stucture of the database to the database designer.
        External schema describe the structure of the databaase to the enduser.Enduser get the view of the database via external schema.
Three level Architecture of Database: It's goal is to separate the user application and the physical database i.e. to provide data independence.
                The three levels are: 1.Internal level: It has the ineternal schema which tell about the physical storage structure of the database and 
                                        describe the details of the data storage.
                                      2.Conceptual level:It has the conceptual schema which tell about the structure of the database to the community of
                                        user and hides details about physical storage structure and concentrate on describing entities, data types and 
                                        relationships.
                                      3.External level:It includes the external schema which tell information about the structure of the database to the
                                        enduser.
Data Independence: Data independence is acheived because, when a schema is changed at a certain level then the schema at the next higher level remain
                   unchanged only the mapping between the levels are changed therefore the application referring to the higher level remain unchanged.
                   Two types:Conceptual and physical data independence.
                                        
Database Instance: The state of database at any particular moment of time, i.e. the collection of data and information along with various object 
                   definition is called database instance.
DDL: The database schema is specified by a set of definition expressed by a special language called data definition language. It help us to create,drop,
     alter and truncate the database.
     Example:     CREATE TABLE Persons (
                      PersonID int,
                      LastName varchar(255),
                      FirstName varchar(255),
                      Address varchar(255),
                      City varchar(255)
                  );
                                      
DML: It is a language that helps us to modify the database instance by inserting,updating and deleting its data.There are two types of DML
     1.Procedural DML:what and how is known.
     2.Non-Procedural: only what is known.
                                      
DCL: It helps us to give or to take access from various tables to different users.There are two type of commands in it namely grant and revoke.

DBA: Database administrator is the person who provides technical support for implementing the policy decision regarding the data of enterprise.
     It is responsible for the overall control of the system at the technical level.
Functions of DBA: 1.Schema Defintion: The DBA creates the Original database schema by executing data defintion statements in DDL.
                                      a.Defining the conceptual schema.
                                      b.Defining the internal schema.
                  2.Storage structure and access method definition:The DBA creates the storage structure and access method by writing a set of defintion.
                  3.Security: The database can have multiple user to it so it is the responsibilty of DBA to ensure that every user cannot access the data
                              so it provide unique password to each user.
                  4.Managing Data dictionary:
                  5.Monitoring DBMS performance:It is the responisibility of DBA to create such a DBMS which is best for organization and also have 
                    regular maintenance activities which ensures the better performance of DBMS.
                  6.Backup and recovery: The DBA is responsible for making sure that the DBMS is faciliated with various backup and recovery schemas.

Domain Constraint: This are the most elementary form of Integrity constraint.It is tesed easily by the system when a data is entered into the database.

ER Model: It is the graphical represententation of the database logic and include the detailed description of all the entities,relationship and constraints.
Entity: An Entity is a thing in the real world with independent existence.The entitiy may be an object with physical(person) or conceptual existence(company).
Attribute: Each entity can have properties that describe it this is called attribute. Example- Entity person can have name as attribute.

Weak Entity:Those entity which do not have enough attribute to form a primary key are called Weak Entity.They are represented by double Rectangle.
            they have partial discriminator key. Relationship between weak and strong entity is represented by double diamond .It is dependent on
            strong entity. It always has total participation.
Strong Entity: They have enough attribute to form a primary key. The are represented by single rectangle. The are not depedent on any other entity.
               they may or may not have total participation.relationship between two strong entity is represetend by single diamond.
Entity Type: The collection of all the entities having same attribute.
Entity Set: The collection of all the entities of particular entity type at a given point of time is called entity set.
            
            
            
            
            


